Welcome to using our building blocks in this video.
You set your commit message before working.
And that's important because that allows us to focus on the work that we're doing.
It also means that we won't slip out of what we want to do and end up doing lots of other things.
It also means when we need to go back in time if we need to go back in time in the future that we've
got a precise location we know what we did at that point in time we're going to start building your
building and that's very important we've got these assets that we've made the wall the doorway the window
etc. but we haven't used them in anything at the moment so it's not a good idea to produce a load of
those into you seen their real effect.
When you brought them into a model and start assembling them not very lean if we produced tons of stuff
and haven't used it yet but we've only got a few items it's a good time now to bring them in and start
noticing a few issues and working out a way around them things we need to correct things we need to
modify.
So let's go explore this now and hop straight on over in a blender.
Okay so of course before we hop straight into blender we need to make sure we're focussed on what we're
doing so let's go ahead and click on commit.
Now there's going to be nothing to commit at the moment unless you've changed something in your working
folder.
However I haven't said there's nothing to commit that's absolutely fine.
I'm going to go to my commit message down the bottom here and I'm going to paste in the title of the
one I'm working which is using our building blocks and I'm going to put in testing as well.
Just to make sure we know that we're testing the project here.
Now I can't click commit or anything that's just ready to go in a bit.
I'm going to minimize that and put it out of the way for the moment.
I've gone ahead and opened up a brand new blender file and I'm going to remove the cube from the scene
because it bears no relevance unless leave the camera and the basic lighting because we can use that
for testing.
So we're going to be spending all of these objects will go on to linking them in a bit.
Because that's got some additional benefits to it.
But just to get a feel about what we're doing is just gonna spend them in and we can see the short cut
there is shift an EF 1.
So we go ahead and press shift and EF 1 we can start importing now.
I'm going to have to navigate to my assets PAC.
I'm not going to bring in many at this point.
I just want a feel of what's going on.
So when I go to my meshes I'm going to bring in a square not the square detail just the plain old square
so square object and the square mash and I would shift an EF 1 again.
Again you can go through the menu system if you want.
I'm going to bring in the doors because that's quite a useful one to work with.
And finally I'm going to bring in the window as well and I've got two choices of windows so I balked
that one out.
I'm going to bring in the one detail because then I'm going to have to rotate it at some point.
Now that we've got V's into our scene what we can start doing is moving them about now.
One of the things to bear in mind is a quick glance at the outliner at the moment.
We've only got three or mesh objects in there but when we start duplicating and moving and all that
sort of stuff to produce are our building we'll see in a moment that that starts to get very messy and
very complicated and difficult to navigate.
So it's all so worthwhile.
Before you start doing this not afterwards because it becomes a pain to do afterwards but before doing
this we actually create ourselves in empty and it doesn't matter which one of these you choose I'm going
to choose a plain axis and I'm going to cool it all under no room test for the moment and then everything
can be linked to that empty.
And when I reproduce or duplicate something I'm going to make sure it's added to the room test.
So let's go ahead and start playing with these things straightaway now instead of just grabbing them
and moving them about because we've made them out of whole blender units.
It's very easy to quickly make something up.
So I'm going to make sure that the snapping tool is turned on that we've got the snapping set.
So the type increment which is the bottom one of that list.
And now we can just literally move things in increments of whole blending units which is very powerful.
Since we've got things set up like that.
So I've got this basic thing here let's make a let's keep moving it I'm going to make an eight by four
room I think there's eight by four or soon find out.
So I've got a window on the end and a door and I'm going to duplicate by holding down shift than day.
Not not necessarily linked duplicates because I may want to make these independent.
So in this case it doesn't really matter and I'm going to place it there quickly and rotate it on was
z axis by 90.
Now I've got a particular direction where this is the outside and this is the inside.
So this is going to have to be moved to over here brilliant So let's move that up and across to there.
I'm going to duplicate that again and lock it to the y axis and place it where I need it.
Finally I'm going to grab both of them and Jube placate again.
Just check checketts duplicated rotate it on the z axis by 180 and then I can quickly shift it over
here and a long to there.
Now we can already see there's going to be a few issues.
These corners don't mine up and there's a couple of choices as to what we can do here.
Am I going to put the floor in first hand and make sure that it works.
Now the floors a little high so I've got to make a note here that the floor needs to be dropped down
so every time I import a particular floor piece it sits below the floor or everything else sits above.
I think it's easier if we make the floor piece sits below.
So I'm going to move them all well.
I'll move it first so move in the z axis.
By mine this amp that point to fry fix so that should put it at the base.
And again you can use an array modifier for this.
If you would like to but I'm very quickly just building this up haven't saved yet.
But that's okay.
Then thing I'd lose too much of my day.
If a blender decided to crash.
Now we can see there that it's gone underneath our our piece here.
No that's not a particular problem because that's nice it lines up nice and flush.
But you can see in certain other places let's just pull it back slightly This is a great example here
so we got the door here.
If we wanted to use this externally as well as internally we can see that these pieces don't quite line
up.
So there's a couple of things.
Can do here.
I can make sure that all of my wall polices also go down by point to five so that sorts out that and
then they sit nice and flush.
I can make sure all of my wall pieces extend by point to.
But hang on a minute.
Which piece do I want.
It doesn't end up very modular.
If I have to keep adding and moving and picking certain window sizes that are an end piece or a beginning
piece what would be easier is if there was another piece that fills in these gaps.
So a for by this is four across Isn't it so a 4 by point twenty five pillar could sit in there and then
we can make a decision here as to whether or not we go all the way down and that would be three point
twenty five in height.
So we got prehaps some extra pieces to make we could fill that gap in exactly or even make a corner
P So an L shaped corner piece and that might actually be more practical than just a thin sliver to sit
inside the wall or even both to give us more options.
But you can see the power of that straight away that we've mocked up a basic room in a matter of seconds
from pieces.
Now obviously this is a series of pieces all strapped together and it looks like a series of pieces
all strapped together because we've not got much variety.
But as soon as we get a bit more variety in there we can start playing now because all of these pieces
before we duplicated them were underneath the empty.
Imagine if they weren't going to have them move them all individuals point because they were underneath
that empty.
We've now got a nice clean hierarchy we've got this single room and then we can move the single room
by just moving there empty that everything's parentage to.
So it's very important just like setting the commit message before starting your project so you remain
focussed on what you're doing.
That we start doing the actual hierarchy is well before we start modelling and putting all the pieces
together.
Trust me if this was a much bigger room than this and those items if you were trying to nest them and
parent them all to something it can take a real time to try and organise what's what and where it is.
Of course all of these at the moment are just named.
Well they're kind of named in appropriately because it's just the static mesh wall window detail whatever
the sign says 0 1 it doesn't tell us where it is on the model.
So another thing you can do if once you're happy with it naming them I think is probably best.
Afterwards again everybody's got their different ways of doing it but until you've made it up you don't
know the position of that so this one here.
I could go in and rename it if this was an orientation I call call it south window or something along
those lines so I know where it is.
If this was a kitchen or the the altar room or whatever that you're working on you can even name it.
You know self and then be more explicit kitchen window or in this case.
I would probably put the room first so if it was a kitchen but kitchen so all of the kitchen stuff is
grouped together kitchen south window etc. so it's entirely up to you how you do these namings because
it does depend on the project you are working on as to whether one naming structure would be better
than another and you will find that you may even change your mind halfway through.
You have to grin and bear with it.
Much like modelling itself if you make a mistake sometimes you just have to start over anyway.
Now we've learnt about appending these things into the scene.
I've of course got a challenge for you guys.
I would like you to finish off the layouts.
So go ahead and make a modular corner piece that we can use carry on a spending bill blocks into a new
blend file.
I suggest storing the blend file in a scene's directory in our working folder.
Build a simple building.
Don't go over the top at this point in time.
Never thing to finish off the layout.
Did you notice any other pieces missing that you actually need.
Make sure you make a note of them so you know the size that you're making and putting together.
Remember to save your blend file state your files and finally make the commit.
Remember to share your building.
In the discussions remember it's a prototype building at the moment.
He doesn't have to be glorious in any way.
Pause a video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go finish off the lay out in blender.
Okay so the first thing that I'm going to do here is just save my file because I haven't done that yet.
And that's quite important.
I'm going to save it into a scene's directory so we're going to save as just to make sure I'm not over
writing anything.
And hoping I am but it's worthwhile checking and I go to my game assets folder and this is the that's
the folder on tracking and I need to create a new folder and you can do that in blender is the sick
one two three four fifth icon along here fifth sixth.
I can't count for there plus one sixth grader that one of the star on it.
And I'm going to call this scenes and I'm going to open that up and I'm literally going to give it that
name again using our bill blocks.
Test Room.
I'm going to save that file.
Now I know that I need to just modify a couple of these pieces now because I have appended them into
the scene and not linked them.
That means that none of these will up date when I modify the original model where these have come from.
We'll learn about linking in a bit.
So that's a bit of a pain.
All of these models I can't just change at once.
Now they do all use the same mesh data which is useful so I can in theory edit all of them here.
But that's that's going to be a bit too much at this point in time I'm imagining if this was much much
bigger would certainly want to work and alter one thing and affect every one of those instances.
So there's a couple of things that I need to make here.
I've identified this corner strip here and I've identified this bottom strip along here as well.
So there's a couple of places that I like.
I need something in place basically to make sure that it's not horrible.
Now the site the same one i'm using across the bottom here I can then use along the bottom here as well.
So there's lots of things to do.
I think a small to poor.
Oh point two five cube will suffice for the moment for these corners.
And then I can position them appropriately.
Of course I'm not going to show you me modelling some extruded cubes except incense the.
So I'll be back in a few moments and place these and finish off my scene.
Okay guys so I've been off and I have created a series as you can see cubes here so I haven't named
them appropriately and slap myself on the wrists for that one.
But suffice to say I I've now got a sealed model without extra bits or grooves in it.
Now one might say at this point perhaps that's a bit too much detail.
I mean you may look at this now and go well where's the roof.
Mike you spent all that time on the walls and the floor.
Where's the roof.
Well that's fine.
We can go ahead and bring the floor up for instance and then do the same thing round the top.
So be a flat bottom so it would be a flat roofed building there if we wanted to do that or we could
make a roofline perhaps a sort of 45 degree one from the parts that we've already got.
There's lots of things that we can work with here.
Now one of the things that I didn't do before duplicating is place these underneath the empty itself.
Now the pain here really comes in selecting them all and fortunately there aren't too many at the moment.
So if I go ahead and holding down shift select them in the outline because that's a lot easier than
trying to select them in the 3D viewport itself once I've done that I can use control and peel go to
object and parents.
There's nothing to parent it to at the moment we need to select the empty lasts as we've done in the
past and that makes the MTV active objects.
It's a lighter coloured orange and if we can find the empty in the scene which I am sure we can.
There we go.
We can see it's a light coloured orange.
Incidentally as you can see there I did produce a cube that was a bit worthless in the end because I
didn't use this small cube.
But it's useful to just have it there.
Another thing that I learnt whilst doing this is perhaps point to five it sounds like a nice number
to have and it wasn't too difficult.
Moving things about however when I'm holding down shift which reduces the increments to a tenth of a
blender unit.
It's been quite nice if the walls were perhaps 300 or 200 wide so that then I could have just positioned
them very quickly rather than having to use the transforms to move them to the appropriate locations.
Anyway I digress so once all of those have been selected and you have the active object set as the parents
that you want them to have we can go object parent.
And of course parent it to the object itself.
And there they are.
They've been moved so they're now all children of the room.
And then if we select the room we can literally move everything about which is incredibly powerful.
How did you guys get on what did you discover when you started putting things together.
This is the essence of being lean.
We've taken our basic building blocks that we've done we've put them together and realized that we've
got some problems and we can go and correct those straight away before having spent hours and hours
doing some really inch crit and detailed modelling.
We found out these problems nice and early so we can go ahead and correct them and come up with ways
to prevent it happening in future.
So the final thing here of course to just finish off is make sure that my blend file is saved and then
going to source tree here.
There we go we can see that we have our work there and the blend file that we've created and the folder
that's associated with it and I make sure that they are staged and click kemet.
Brilliant.
How did you guys get on.
I'd love to see your room designs.
What else did you discover when doing this rapid prototyping.
So we've taken our assets we've moved them into a scene to make sure they're working we found some problems
with them so we haven't wasted lots of time and then we've we can get back we can fix things and then
reimport them and make sure they're working and we'll find out a faster way of doing that shortly.
Please share your work in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.